So we're unchanged from HTML which
is what we're doing right now and
we're gonna change into HTMX, okay?
So we're gonna do three things.
We're gonna add an endpoint
POST / count that increments
the value that's gonna be
appearing on the index page.
We're gonna remove the incrementing
from the GET / route and
we're gonna add a button to the html
that goes and makes things happen.
All right, sounds good?
By the way, this will be a great
point if you use Copilot,
you can kinda cheat some of the things
right here but if you don't, that's fine.
So first thing I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna add a POST endpoint should be
pretty straightforward.
So I'm gonna do that, POST count and
this will do the counting and
then I'll return out the template.
The get, we no longer increment on a get,
only on a post to count so
pretty simple server change
not a lot just went on there.
And then we're gonna go
over to our templates and
we need to add a little something.
So, I am gonna add a button and that's
gonna do something called hx-post so
this means I'm gonna make a post
request with this button and
it's gonna be for / count and there we go.
[SOUND] So now we have a button
on the page called count.
I have told it to post to count.
Don't worry, we're gonna explain all this
in detail this is just kinda like the high
level introduction.
We're gonna post it to count and
we should see just what happens.
So I pretty much did everything
that needs to happen except for
we also need HTMX in our website.
HTMX is a small JavaScript library.
So I'll go like this I'm gonna tell
Copilot please get me htmx cdn.
This is one of the fun parts
about Copilot and bam, it works.
But if you don't have Copilot
go to htmx.org, go to the docs,
search up the word script,
enter through a few times and right there.
It's about the fourth
one in via the CDN link.
We're just gonna use
the CDN link it's easy,
it's straightforward to use we
don't need a build process.
Awesome, we have that.
We now have the HTMX script and
we have the HTMX post going on.
All right, so a lot of you are probably
confused again, that's okay.
I want you to try to start drawing
boxes in your head at this point.
So if we've done everything correctly,
when I refresh this,
we get a count button.
You should also see that.
Let's press count,
it's probably not what you wanted to see.
This is probably not the results
you were hoping for.
It kinda sucks that's just not,
this is not good at all, is this?
>> I can't get my air to run,
>> can't get air to run?
If you can't get air to run,
you can literally you could,
this would be super annoying, but
you can you can just go run cmd/main.go.
And that will run the server,
it's just that when you make a change,
you're just gonna have to run it yourself,
which is,
it's just annoying more
than anything else.
Air was just supposed
to be a convenience so
you don't forget to refresh your server.
And then you'll be debugging the lies
this thing and then you'll go,
yeah I forgot to update it just
like the classic Wi Fi watching us
is just such a good developer experience.
I cannot tell you how many hours of my
life has been devoted to I forgot to
restart the server.
At least I would honestly say at least
one solid year of my life has been
devoted to that just singular bug.
All right, fantastic so
hopefully everyone is on board.
So we did these code updates.
Yep, everyone should be able to see
these updates pretty straightforward.
I did more count right there and
now what happened?
I don't think anyone likes the results.
I think it's probably time that I
introduce HTMX in maybe a more structured
way because this probably isn't
what everyone was going for.
This double button, somehow my button had
a baby here and everything feels confused